The results of the treatment effect estimation vary between models as well as between dgps. To get a better understanding why some models perform better that others in some dgps and why some dgps have a bad performance across all models, some diagnostic measures/ a deeper look must be taken at the characteristics of the different datasets. There are many characteristics that can influence how well different models perform for a dataset, such as level of linearity of treatment assignment and outcome model, level of treatement effect heterogeneity, level of overlap, balance (proportion of treated observations to all observations), proportion of signal to noise (how much of the variation in the outcome is caused by the covariates/treatment and how much is random error), etc.
The creators of the datasets did not publish any information about the fata generating processes except that there is no hidden confounding. Therefore no direct connections between dataset characteristics and results can be made. Still, some statements about the character of the datasets can be made by employing diagnostic tools that measure or estimate the characteristics.

Balance:
By calculation the proportion of treated and control units in relation to the total number of observations, the balance of the dataset can be assessed. The average proportion of treated units across all 100 datasets of each DGP can be found in table X. Numbers close to 0.5 indicate a balanced dataset, the closer to 0 or 1, the more imbalanced is the dataset. It can be observed that especially Dgp37 and dgp38 are highly imbalanced (%), which in a total. This could explain the poor performance of the T-Learner, which can get problems when one of the two models is trained on too few observations. Since the number of observations in both datasets is only 500, the treatment groups contain only x and x. The causal forest seems to struggle with that as well (why?). The three other BART models and IPTW + Regression seem to still be able to capture the treatment effect since they use the whole dataset.

Common Support Tuning:
One of the assumptions for unbiased estimates of treatment effects is overlap (see Chapter X). It requires that for each combination of covariates, there is a positive chance of both receiving and not receiving treatment. This translates to in both groups observations of the same cpvariate combinations being present. When overlap is lacking for some regions of the covariate space, the model cannot compare treated and untreated units to learn about their differences and has to extrapolate. Some models account for that better than others, but it is a general problem. To avoid bias that occurs due to extrapolation, a common strategy is to exclude observations that are outside the overlap space.

There are different approaches to estimate overlap. Quantifying it exactly is not feasible in high-dimensional settings. Common methods make use of propensity scores and calculate the overlap of the propensity distributions distributions of treatment and cpntrol group. X however criticized that those methods do not take into account that not all covariates are equally part of the treatment effect mechanism. A ps overlap method might identify overlap in a covaroate area and 


X therefore proposed another method for identifying units that are out of the overlap area which is BART based.
